# Unemployment-in-Italy
Descriptive analysis of unemployment in Italy, taking into consideration EPL ratio (Employment Protection Legislation) and the percentage of public expenditure on active and passive market policies on the national GDP

This analysis has been performed in order to see if the methodology and the results described by the paper: "Welfare Benefits and Unemployment in Affluent Democracies: The Moderating Role of the Institutional Insider/Outsider Divide" of Thomas Biegert can be applied also to the Italian case. The goal of this repository is to apply some of the key concepts described by Biegert, without conducting such a precise micro-level analysis as the one he has made. In fact, I have used macro-level indicators extracted from the OECD database, and, in particular:
- Strictness of employment protection on regular contracts and strictness on temporary contracts. These two indicators have been used to compute what Biegert calls "EPL ratio", where EPL stands for Employment Protection Legislation. It is one of the main element that he uses in his analysis to express the insider/outsider divide in the labor market
- Unemployment rate (in percentage)
- Public expenditure for labor market policies as a percentage of the Italian GDP

Data refers to the years from 1992 to 2009, which is the same used by Biegert in his study. The descriptive analysis present in this repository seems to support the result of the Biegert's paper. In fact, during the time period considered, the EPL ratio has increased, indicating a greater insider/outsider divide. At the same time, the active and passive public measures have remained substantially at a low level. And the unemployment rate, as predicted by the model, has tendentially decreased until 2007-2008, confirming, in the case of a large divide, the general tendency  of jobseekers to accept jobs they would have probably otherwise refused if the benefits would have been higher.
